IN THE DISTRICT COURT IN AND FOR WAGONER COUNTY
STATE OF OKLAHOMA
In the Matter of the Adoption of )
)
SAMPLE CHILD )
DOB: 3/2/2015 ) No. FA-2026-_____
)
A Minor Child. )
PETITION FOR ADOPTION
Comes now SAMPLE PETITIONER, and respectfully alleges and states as follows:
1. That the Petitioner has been a resident of Wagoner County, State of Oklahoma, for at least six (6) consecutive months prior to the filing of this Petition and there is available in this state substantial evidence concerning the minor’s present and future care; Further, this Court has proper venue over this matter pursuant to Title 10 O.S. sec. 7502-1.2.
2. That your Petitioner is unmarried and that the Petitioner’s present address is 100 Sample Street, Sampletown, OK 74000.
3. That the minor child, SAMPLE CHILD, is a Caucasian male child, who was born on the 2nd day of March, 2015, at Sample Regional Hospital, in the City of Sampletown, Sample County, State of Oklahoma.
4. That the Petitioner, SAMPLE PETITIONER, is a Caucasian female who was born on the 15th day of June, 1985, in Oklahoma and is now 41 years of age.
5. That your Petitioner desires to adopt SAMPLE CHILD and desires to change the name of SAMPLE CHILD to the name of SAMPLE NEW CHILD NAME.
6. That the child is in the legal custody of the Department of Human Services pursuant to a juvenile deprived action filed in the District Court of Sample County, State of Oklahoma. That the Petitioner obtained foster parent placement of the minor child in September of 2024, and the minor has resided with the Petitioner since that time.
7. That the minor child, SAMPLE CHILD, may receive a subsidy from the Department of Human Services, but possesses no other real or personal property except for clothing and personal effects of nominal value. That a copy of the subsidy agreement from the Department of Human services will be filed herein.
8. That your Petitioner desires to adopt said child as the Petitioner’s own lawful child and desires that the relationship of parent and child be fully established between said Petitioner and said child.
9. That the Home Study for the Petitioner is completed and has been filed herein and it is in the best interest of the minor child that the Court waive the entry of an Interlocutory Decree and the waiting period for (6) months as specifically provided for in Title 10 O.S. Sec. 7505-6.3, known as the Uniform Adoption Act of the State of Oklahoma and that a Final Decree of Adoption should be approved by this Court as soon as possible.
10. That the Petitioner, in consideration of the Decree of this Honorable Court allowing the adoption of the above named child by the Petitioner, and in consideration of the consent of the Oklahoma Human Services, does hereby agree to support, maintain, and educate said child during the child’s minority and does agree to treat said child in all respects as the Petitioner’s own lawful child should be treated.
11. That the biological mother of the child is SAMPLE BIRTH MOTHER and that the parent executed in the juvenile deprived action hereinabove mentioned a permanent relinquishment of her parental rights and consent to this adoption. A certified copy of said permanent relinquishment of parental rights and consent to adoption will be filed herein.
12. That the biological father of the child is SAMPLE BIRTH FATHER and that the parent executed in the juvenile deprived action hereinabove mentioned a permanent relinquishment of his parental rights and consent to this adoption. A certified copy of said permanent relinquishment of parental rights and consent to adoption will be filed herein.
13. That lawful written consent of the Department of Human Services, will be entered before this Court prior to the issuance of a final decree.
14. That said child is less than 12 years of age and, therefore, the child’s consent to this Adoption is not required under the Oklahoma Uniform Adoption Act, Okla. Stat. Tit. 10 Sec. 7503-2.1.
15. That pursuant to Title 10 O.S. Sec 7505-3.1, the Petitioner have a duty to advise the Court of the following matters:
That to the best of the Petitioner’s knowledge and belief, the minor child herein has resided in the following counties and states with the following individuals, if known, for the past five years: Sample County, State of Oklahoma with the Petitioner or biological parents.
Petitioner knows of no one else who would have the right to claim custody or interest in this child other than the biological parents, and both of these individuals have executed their consent to this adoption or have otherwise forfeited their parental rights.
That the Petitioner knows of no previous Court Order, litigation or pending proceeding concerning custody or visitation with the minor child nor any other fact needed to establish the jurisdiction of this Court, save and excepting the juvenile deprived action mentioned hereinabove.
16. That the minor child is a member of the Sample Nation and therefore the Indian Child Welfare Act 25 U.S.C.A. Section 1901 et seq. does apply to this proceeding. That notice of the pendency of this proceeding is being given to the child’s Tribe and to the Area office of the Bureau of Indian Affairs as is evidenced by the Notice filed contemporaneously with the Petition.
17. Petitioner has incurred certain legal and administrative expenses in connection with this adoption proceeding and they will be paid by the Oklahoma Department of Human Services or the Attorney for the Petitioner. An Affidavit of Expenses will be filed herein.
18. That copy of the home study will be filed herein prior to the final hearing on this Petition.
19. That the Petitioner has never filed an adoption petition in this or any other jurisdiction. Further, that a home study or professional custody evaluation has never been conducted regarding the Petitioner.
WHEREFORE, premises considered, your Petitioner respectfully prays that this Court make and enter an order waiving the entry of an interlocutory decree and the waiting period of six (6) months and that this Court find that it is for the best interest of the minor child that a final Decree of Adoption be granted; that a time and place for the final hearing be set; that thereupon the Court make, enter and order a final Decree of Adoption establishing the relationship of parent and child between said child and the Petitioner; and that the Petitioner have such other relief as the Court may find appropriate.
VERIFICATION
STATE OF OKLAHOMA )
) ss.
COUNTY OF WAGONER )
SAMPLE PETITIONER, of lawful age, being first duly sworn upon oath state: That the affiant is the Petitioner above named, that affiant has read the foregoing Petition and knows the contents thereof, and that the facts therein set forth are true.
SAMPLE PETITIONER, Petitioner
Subscribed and sworn to before me this _____ day of __________________, 2026.
Notary Public
IN THE DISTRICT COURT IN AND FOR WAGONER COUNTY
STATE OF OKLAHOMA
In the Matter of the Adoption of )
)
SAMPLE CHILD )
DOB: 3/2/2015, ) No. FA-2026-_____
)
A Minor Child. )
DECREE OF ADOPTION
Now on this ____ day of _____________, 2026, the above styled cause comes on for hearing by the Court upon the Petition of SAMPLE PETITIONER, for a Decree of Adoption; and the Petitioner being personally present in Court with attorney of record, SAMPLE SHORT NAME, and said child, SAMPLE CHILD, being personally present in Court; a representative appears on behalf of the Oklahoma Department of Human Services in order to consent to this Adoption; and
The Court thereupon proceeded to examine the pleadings and to receive the evidence of witnesses sworn and examined before the Court, and the Court makes the following finds, to-wit:
That this Court has jurisdiction and venue by virtue of the parental rights of the parents of minor child were terminated in this Court or by virtue of the residence of the Petitioner.
That the Petitioner is unmarried and that the Petitioner’s present address is 100 Sample Street, Sampletown, OK 74000.
That the minor child, SAMPLE CHILD, is a Caucasian male child, who was born on the 2nd day of March, 2015 at Sample Regional Hospital, in the City of Sampletown, Sample County, State of Oklahoma.
That the provisions of the Indian Child Welfare Act, 25 U.S.C.A. Section 1901 et seq., do apply to this action and that a Notice of the Pendency of this Proceeding was given to the Sample Nation and to the Area Director of the Bureau of Indian Affairs.
That the minor child is under 12 years of age, and therefore, the minor’s consent to this adoption is not required under the Oklahoma Uniform Adoption Act, Okla. Stat. Tit. 10 Sec. 7503-2.1.
That the Parental Rights to all parents of the minor child have been terminated and they are hereby relieved and deprived of any and all rights to or over said child or to their property, care, custody or control. Further, the necessary consents for adoption required by the Uniform Adoption Act of the State of Oklahoma have been duly executed and filed with this Court and that the consent of no other person or persons is necessary to vest this Court with jurisdiction.
That a representative from the Oklahoma Department of Human Services appears and submits to the Court the Department's Consent to Adoption and that the same is in conformity in all respects with the requirement of law and the Court approves and confirms the same.
The Court further finds that the Oklahoma Department of Human Services has performed the statutorily required Home study in accordance with the provisions of title 10 O.S. Sec. 7505-5.1 and Sec. 7505-5.3 and the Department's report concludes that Petitioner is suitable to be an adoptive parent.
That the name of said child shall be changed from SAMPLE CHILD to SAMPLE NEW CHILD NAME.
That the Court further finds from the evidence and report of the Oklahoma Department of Human Services filed herein that the entry of an Interlocutory Decree of Adoption and the waiting period of six (6) months as provided in Title 10 O.S. Sec 7505-6.3 should be waived and that the waiver of the same is in the best interest of the minor child, and that a Final Decree of Adoption should be entered at this time.
That the minor child may receive a subsidy from the Department of Human Services but possesses no other real or personal property of significant value. That a copy of the subsidy agreement will be filed contemporaneously with this decree.
That the Court find that it is in the best interest of said child, SAMPLE CHILD, that this adoption be approved by the Court.
That the Petitioners did receive an award for adoption assistance to cover attorney fees and other expenses directly related to this adoption. That the expenses listed in the Affidavit of Expenses are reasonable, legally authorized and are approved. That this Court finds that no money or other property, or any other valuable thing has been paid, given, transferred, or delivered to anyone in consideration for the adoption in question other than that as provided by law.
That this child is determined by the Oklahoma Human Services to be an eligible special needs child as provided in Title 10 O.S. § 7510-1.5 and/or 42 U.S. Code § 673.
IT IS THEREFORE ORDERED, ADJUDGED AND DECREED BY THE COURT that said child shall henceforth be the lawfully adopted child of the Petitioner, SAMPLE PETITIONER, herein, and that the name of said child is hereby changed from SAMPLE CHILD to SAMPLE NEW CHILD NAME, and that henceforth the exclusive custody, care, nurture, and education of said child is hereby vested in the Petitioner, SAMPLE PETITIONER.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED, ADJUDGED AND DECREED BY THE COURT that henceforth the relationship of parent and child and all the rights, duties and other legal consequences of the natural relation of parent and child shall exist between the child herein adopted and the adopting parent, SAMPLE PETITIONER.
JUDGE OF THE DISTRICT COURT
SAMPLE PETITIONER, Petitioner
By:
Terri Raye Craig, OBA #16485
Attorney for Petitioner
P. O. Box 991
Wagoner, OK 74477
(918) 485-1529
Craiglawoffice@yahoo.com
Terri Craig, OBA #16485
Attorney for Petitioner
P. O. Box 991
Wagoner, OK 74477
(918) 485-1529
Craiglawoffice@yahoo.com
